# Thinkful-Capstone-

Exploring the failed financial institutions from 1934-2017
For my Capstone project, I wanted to explore a dataset that not only had appropriate depth and breadth for critical analysis and visualization, but also one whose contents aligned with my particular interests. It took a few days to sift through the various open datasets linked to the course program, but eventually I stumbled across an interesting dataset on Kaggle that contained detailed bank failure information from 1934 to 2017.

This report lists each failure of a commercial bank, savings association, and savings bank since the establishment of the FDIC in 1933. Each record includes the institution name and FIN number, institution and charter types, location of headquarters (city and state), effective date, insurance fund and certificate number, failure transaction type, total deposits and total assets last reported prior to failure (in thousands of dollars), and the estimated cost of resolution. Data on estimated losses are not available for FDIC insured failures prior to 1986 or for FSLIC insured failures from 1934-88. It should be noted that this bank failure report dataset was downloaded from the FDIC website.

As stated in my thesis, the inspiration for this project comes kaggle but more so from my lifelong curiosity about recurring financial and economic problems, what affect they have had on the past and what we can do about it in the future. In that regard, the lifespan of banks; their state and national influence peaks my interest. And I will utilize the techniques gleaned from this course to answer to the following questions to the best of my ability. How have institution failures changed over time? What type of institution is the most likely to fail? What institution failure cost the federal government the most to resolve? What type overall? Which period relative to other periods?
